TIC TAC TOE 

Introduction: 

In the present era, we as an individual prefer the smart phones for all our daily activities. Starting 
from the majors to the minors as technology has brought a draconian change, every manual thing 
now can be seen on the mobile phones, android etc. 

Games- Which is the desire of every teenager, massive of the mobile games once played 
manually now can be seen on the play store such as Ludo star, Tic Tac Toe etc. Highlighting the 
game “Tic Tac Toe” which is not anymore unique to us and is massively approached by the 
individuals in their free time. 

It is defined as a positional game played in between the two parties, which holds the alternates in 
claiming a given arrangement of components, with the objective of shaping a triumphant setup of 
components; for example, in spasm tac toe the workings are the squares of a network, and the 
triumphant designs are outlines of squares. 

This report consists of the Tic Tac Toe game concept and how it is played on the computer as the 
game is computerized and holds some difference from actual. 

Description of the game (Tic Tac Toe): 

The game which is designed is named as Tic Tac Toe. As we are familiar with it and because of 
its simplicity it is considered as a priority base game. 

The Tic-tac-toe, or can also be referred as noughts and crosses, also can be termed as X’s and 
O’s is a game for two participants, X and O, who swap denoting the spaces in a 3×3 matrix. The 
player who prevails with regards to setting three of their imprints in an even, vertical, or slanting 
line is the champ. 

Diagram of Tic Tac Toe for clear vision of the game: 



Figure: Demonstrating the structure of the game which is 3*3 matrix. 

Options delivered by the computerized game: 

This game can be played among the two: 

1) Pc 
2) Creatures 
While playing on paper only the humans are involved while playing on computer gives you 
opportunity that if you are alone then your opponent is computer itself, no worries. Enjoy your 
time and start. 

As there are two players, similarly there is a requirement of the two symbols. The symbols which 
are normally preferred are the X and O. In the event that the primary player mark "X" at that 
point the subsequent player is obliged to check "O" and the other way around. 

A player indicates all of the 3x3 squares with his sign (may be "X" or "O") and his goal is to 
make a straight line of two objectives, evenly(horizontally) or vertically or awry (askew). 

It is compulsory to draw a line on the off chance that one winds up with three comparative 
images to get the prize and if both of the players neglected to check the three images either 
evenly, vertically or slantingly then the game winds up in a tie between the two players. 

Key aspects to be remembered: 

1) The primary player, who will be assigned "X", has 3 potential deliberately unmistakable 
situations to check during the principal turn. 
2) Hastily, it may happen to be that there are 9 potential locations, equating to the 9 squares 
in the matrix. 
3) Nonetheless, by pivoting the panel, in the main turn it is found that each corner mark is 
deliberately proportional to each other corner mark. 
4) The equivalent is valid for each edge (side center) mark. 
5) From a strategical perspective, there are consequently just three potential first stamps: 
corner, edge, or focus. 
6) From any of these beginning imprints notwithstanding, playing the corner gives the rival 
the littlest selection of squares which must be played to dodge losing, Player X can win 
or power a draw. 
7) This may recommend that the corner is the best opening move for X, an initial move in 
the inside is best for ,anyway another study shows that if the players are not great. 
Tips for winning the match: 

1) Try to initialize the game as the first player as he is having more opportunities than the second 
player and more chances for winning. 

2) You ought to use a bit of technique to pound the machine. Strategy is connected to 
finding what to do to succeed. 
3)Part of the game plan is to endeavor to end up being the methods by which you can get three 
Xs in a line. The other point of view is endeavoring to end up being the methods by which the 
machine can't convey three O's in progression. 

4)You continue looking forward after you have set a X in a square shape. 

5)Where is the accompanying X ideal spot to be? You look at the unfilled squares and you make 
sense of which ones are satisfactory choices which ones will help you with making three Xs in 
progression. 

6)You will moreover watch where your machine puts its O. Focus what is demanded by the 
current situation. Take the moves. 

7When the machine gets two O's in progression, so you have to put the accompanying X in that 
section in the last unfilled square, or the machine will win. 

8)Particular square, else you surrender the game. 

Here comes the Pseudo code: 

1) Who will win? 
2) What are the consequences you are facing from the opponent? 
3) Are you taking the right moves? 
4) Can you take away the match or will end up with a draw? 
5) What will be the outcome? 
Your whole advances are relying upon the main move you took: 
Remove this opening endlessly 
Simply press submit in the event that you win. 
At the point when you have 2 moves that you will take the going with: 
3a-Anything straightforward: mark a couple 
3b-Dense Something: see whether there are various such 2 phases and engraving the ordinary 
part, then once more, engraving such a viewpoint, that will gather a circumstance if there are 
more 2-advance win cases in you. 
The game will be yours, no compromise, Focus on what make you win no matter how hard it is. 


Sequence Diagram: 


Usecase Diagram: 


Activity Diagram: 


Output: 



References: 

Chandra, K. and Chandra, S.S., 2019. Teaching Programming Concepts by Developing 
Games.arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.05207. 

Schäfer, U., 2019, April. Teaching Modern C++ with Flipped Classroom and Enjoyable IoT 
Hardware. In2019 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON) (pp. 
910-919). IEEE. 


Bae, S., 2019.Data Structure And Algorithm Fundamentals. Apress. 

Strickland, J.R., 2018. Meet C++. InRaspberry Pi for Arduino Users (pp. 123-177). Apress, 
Berkeley, CA. 


